SMITH
Lead Systems Engineer | System Design | Project Management
Number CT: ooooo Email:   linkedin.com  | address: 
SUMMARY
------------------
Innovative Lead Systems Engineer with over 6 years of experience in automation and system design. Proficient in Rockwell plaforms, with a strong project management backgroud and successful completion of global system design project.

EXPERIENCE:
---------------------------
Lead Systems Engineer
    SDSV
- Directed a team of 5 engineers in designing and implementing control systems,
- Led project design and commissioning for multinational clients,
- Spearheaded the integration of new technologies into existing systems, reducing maintenance costs by 15%
- Collaborated with project managers to redefine project scope, successfully delivering under budget by 10%
- Established technical communication channels with clients, improving project approval times by 20%
- Developed a monitoring system through Rockwell PlantPAx, enhancing system accuracy and reliability.
Systems Engineer:
- Designed and implemented control archeitecture, resulting in a 40% increase in system responsiveness.
- Managed functional requirement sessions with clients, streamlining project requirements change response by 35%
- Customized Rockwell software, enriching product offerings and increasing client database 12%
- Orchestrated on-site system commissioning and testing, leading to successfull early project delivery.
- conducted training for junior engineers, improving team output quality by 15%.
Junior Systems Engineer:
-Assisted in programming controller with Rockwell controllogix, enhancing client project's peak performance.
- Optimized system configuration  testing protocols, increasing testing efficiency by 20%
- Contributed to electrical control panel designs resuslting in reduced production times by 10%
- Collaborated on cross-functional teams to iterate on system design, achieving a 100% deliverable success reate.

- Maintained backup of server environments while creating failover policies and shared resources across WANs
    - Administered virtualized server environments, setting up, monitoring, and maintaining alerts on host and VM status indicators.
    - Configured and maintained UPS on critical infrastructure resulting in enhanced system stability
    - Reduced cost by 20% through improved procurement and vendor negotiation.

Senior Systems Engineer
Archiected and deployed major upgrades across different IT environments, along with maintaining and managing existing setups.
    - Drirected the setup, monitoring, and maintenance of alerts on data storage status indicators across WANs resulting in better data management.
    - Ensured robust failover processes and alert mechnisms were in place for high uptime.
    - Managed the migration of 10+ environments to Azure, enhancing the company's move towards cloud-native infrastructure
 
EDUCATION
-------------------------

SKILLS: 
System design, Project management, Technical documentation, Network architecture, Software integration
TRAINING/COURSES:
Teraform, AWS, Linux, MySQL, 
PASSIONS:
Automation and Control Systems: Passionate about advancing control systems and implementing automation technology
Continuous Learning: An avid learner, I regularly enroll in cources and certifications to stay updated with the latest technologies in the field of Systems Engineering.
Mentoring: I enjoy sharing my knowledge and helping budding engineers grow in their careers, conducting periodic technical workshops.
Traveling: Enjoy exploring new cultures and gaining diverse perspectives through traval.

Sen



CONTACT

SKILLS
Technical:
    VMware ESX
    Virtualization
    Troubleshooting
Techniques:
    System Administration
    Disaster Recovery
    Control System Design
Tools and Software:
    Java
Languages:
    English (Intermediate)

EDUCATION:
     University of Transport Ha Noi 2004-2009

Certificate:
    AWS
    CKA

Systens Enginer with 9+ years of experience improving network operations by implementing disaster recovery strategies and configuring security systems Key achievement: Developed a RESTful API with Python on top of SQLAlchemy, 

Senior System Engineer
RELEVANT WORK EXPERIENCE
--------------------------
SamSung SDSV, Ha Noi, VietNam
Senior System Engineer, Cloud Engineer, Devops Engineer  2023 - Present
    Intalling and operator Firewall Logging of Cloud SS System
    Monitoring Services
    Deployment services with GIT - Argocd- Harbor on K8S

Mobifone Global:
System Engineer, Network Engineer, Project Manager    9/2013 - 03/2023
Network-Engineer 9/2013 - 10/2015
    Analyzed network requirements and performed 15 backups daily, leading to a 40% improvement of the company's network performance
    Configured, and managed 5 window servers and also fixed issues with Windows based software programs, increasing Polyhire's business operational efficiency by 85%
    Developed original web pages and integrated 10 new systems into existing networks by resolving networking problems, which consolidated the security of the company's critical infrastructure for 8 months without hitches.
    increased the performance and security of 10 company networks, and was awarded employee of the month in 2013

    Data Center Operation
    Optical transmision system

System- Engineer 10/205 - 03/2000
    Championed the implementation of 5 new data centers and server infrastructure for 10 international companies with over 120K employees achieved a 95% uptime for 2 years.
    Implemented a centralized backup system across 5 locations that helped reduce backup time by 97% compared to previous solutions.
    Designed custom software applications using Bash shell, Ansibel, which automated 10 manual processes and improved efficiency by 90%
    Managed a 5-member technical support team that responded promptly to complanints from over 2K customers, successfully maintaining a high customer satifsfaction rating

Computer Engineer: Computer Technician
    Developedand implemented a new system that tracked the locaiton of 20 compalny vehicles using GPS, which reduced manual entry by over 95%
    Assisted with technical support for software installation and configuration problems on Windown XP/7-11 systems via remote desktop connection, increasing staff efficiency by 60%
    Suscceeded in writing scripts that automated data collection from 45 sources including Excel spreadsheets, SQL database, web services, helping ro reduce the time spent on manual data entry by ~ 90%.

    Installed and configured new computer hardware, software, printers and networking equipment for 500 RW clients.
    Fixed damaged hard drives using data recovery tools to salvage critical company information, increasing client satisfaction rating by 35%
    Designed an automated system that tracked employee time cards, saving RW 22 hours per week in payroll processing.
    Updated security patches on 300 company computers, preventing over 3K malware and virus attacks in 2011 alone.
    Maintained an up-to-date inventory of 5K computer parts in the warehouse worth over $2M.

PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
####################


